Welcome, welcome, welcome to this month's broadcast.
Here is a little sample of what will be contained in our program.
We'll meet brothers and sisters who've learned to see and treat others impartially.
What helped them?
And how can all of us be united in a divided world?
We'll find out.
Have you ever needed to muster up courage to do what's right?
Are you enduring disappointment?
We'll see what we can learn from the example of Samuel.
And Jesus showed us how to see the good in people to be loving and kind, just like a child.
That's the message of our new music video.
Yes, there's much to look forward to.
And this May 2020 edition of J. W. Broadcasting.
The Ways Rejoice is the appealing theme of this year's conventions.
The governing body would like to give you a preview of the program.
Let's take a look.
Everyone wants to be happy.
But we all face problems, problems that are hard to deal with.
So, can you ever really be happy?
At the 2020 convention of Jehovah's Witnesses, you will learn how to find joy even when life is hard.
And how God has made it possible for us to be happy now and forever.
Happiness might seem hard to find, but it isn't.
Come and see for yourself.
That preview reminds us of the wonderful convention program of last year,
including the feature film about faithful Josiah.
What was involved in producing that drama?
Please watch the following video that reveals what transpired behind the scenes.
Where do you begin an important project?
Like the story of Josiah, love Jehovah, hate what is bad.
You begin with prayerful consideration.
It's a serious responsibility, part of being loyal to Jehovah and his word.
Therefore, many hours of careful research goes into the first step, writing a script.
The script is then visualized through a step called storyboarding.
But it's not just the script and storyboarding that requires attention to accuracy.
Costumes must be thoroughly researched so that their components, styles, colors,
and even the types of fabrics appear as historically accurate as possible.
The production must also accurately depict the times being represented,
while making the best use of donated funds.
How can this be done?
For the story of Josiah, the solution was to film at Bethel Locations,
such as the Studio Spaces at Mount Ebo.
Set construction began early in 2018.
The production team designed and built three flexible sets,
so that with easy propositions, they could be in multiple locations.
Even the exterior Jerusalem city scenes were filmed indoors.
Many brothers and sisters from local congregations served as extras for the crowd scenes.
With an eye to biblical and historical accuracy,
the makeup team transformed the actors into characters from King Josiah's time.
There were so many details to get right.
For a large portion of the drama, filming in front of a green screen
enabled the visual effects team to construct accurate environments digitally.
Many layers of character action, called plates, were assembled with digital environments
to produce complex visuals for the closing festival scene,
which required 14,000 Israelites and many sheep.
3D models were made and duplicated to simulate the large crowd.
In July 2018, the production packed up and moved to an outdoor location
at Watchtower Farms in Wauk Hill, New York.
In August, the last scene was filmed back to the Mount Ebo studio.
After 45 days of filming and with over four terabytes of footage captured,
the team had finished production.
The project moved to the editing facilities at Patterson, New York.
But what more could be done so the account betrayed could touch our hearts?
A colorist applied a look to the overall film to enhance the picture's quality and mood.
Additional sound effects, such as footsteps and sound of dry grasping rustled,
or recorded to make the on-screen action more natural and compelling.
Finally, the musical soundtrack was composed, recorded,
and added to the movie to enhance the appeal to our hearts.
The work on the story of Josiah loved Jehovah, heatwood is bad,
was done to strengthen Jehovah's people worldwide.
You're not alone. Jehovah is with you.
This powerful story also assists parents as they teach their children the power of God's word and promise.
These words that I'm commanding you today must be on your heart.
And you must enculcate them and your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house.
And when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.
So that it may always go well with you and your sons after you.
Because you are doing what is good and right in the eyes of Jehovah, you are God.
The story of Josiah has proven to be yet another example of how Jehovah continues to provide a button spiritual food and support for his people worldwide.
That video certainly brought the Bible account to life for us.
You may want to go back and review the full feature film again from our website.
We might mention that we've had just a few parents write in expressing concern that some of our videos depict scenes that could have an effect on children who have been protected from anything even hinting at an act of violence.
We very much appreciate the concern.
However, when portraying a Bible account, we cannot ignore the message Jehovah's Office to preserve in his word.
We don't feel comfortable watering down the inspired insight that Jehovah has preserved for the benefit of true worshipers.
However, as you've observed, we do so as tastefully as possible.
We don't show actual violent acts or bloodshed.
A scriptural precedent might be found in 2 Chronicles chapter 20, verse 13.
Jehoshaphat was describing a great crowd of enemy nations that were about to launch an attack against God's people.
He described the possible disaster quite graphically, referring to the possibility of death by the sword, by pestilence, or by famine.
Who was he sharing this disturbing information with?
2 Chronicles chapter 20, verse 13 tells us.
Meanwhile, all those of Judah were standing before Jehovah along with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
Jehovah wanted all, including the young ones, to understand what was coming.
Parents likewise need to give their children a realistic idea of what we all will face in the near future.
Many parents choose to help their children appreciate the graphic visual imagery of a Bible-based video,
while at the same time building trust in Jehovah who will be with them in times of distress.
This is similar to what they do when reading a graphic biblical account to their children from the scriptures, such as from the book of Revelation.
Be assured that we'll continue to be sensitive to the feelings of you parents when we produce a video that's based on a Bible account that includes descriptions of warfare or other incidents of violent actions.
We'll do so with care, while not ignoring the powerful details depicted in the inspired word of God.
The theme for this program is, be childlike, but not childish.
1 Corinthians chapter 14 verse 20 is our theme scripture.
Brothers, do not become young children in your understanding, but be young children as to badness and become full grown in your understanding.
In this single verse, we're told not to be like a young child in one way, and we're told to be like a young child in another way.
We should not be like a child when it comes to understanding, and we should be like a child when it comes to badness.
During this discussion, let's focus on three ways we should not be like a child, and then let's talk about three ways we should be like a child.
Please turn to Hebrews chapter 5 verses 13 and 14, and let's identify negative trait number one that we do not want to imitate.
For everyone who continues to feed on milk is unacquainted with the word of righteousness, for he is a young child.
But solid food belongs to mature people, to those who, through use, have their powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.
So the negative trait that children have is immature feeding habits.
Think about it. Young children have a tendency to eat what they like, regardless of its nutritional value.
Most young ones would be perfectly happy eating ice cream, candy, cookies, and other sweets for all of their meals.
But now we ask, what do our spiritual appetites and feeding habits reveal about us? Consider, how do we spend our free time?
Do we squander voluminous hours watching television or reading material that provides little or no spiritual nutrition?
Or do we make wise use of our free time to take in solid spiritual food?
When we receive a new issue of the watchtower, do we merely scan through it, looking at a few highlights, and then do something else?
Do we take time to research deeper spiritual truths so as to fully understand them?
Do we take time to really meditate? Meditation is not daydreaming. Meditation is bridal-focused thought.
Pause your reading to ask questions such as, what does this teach me about Jehovah?
With whom can I share this information? What's Jehovah telling me?
How does this fit in? With other things, I know about this subject. How can I make application?
James 125 encourages us to peer into God's Word.
According to the reference Bible, peer literally means to stoop beside.
To illustrate, simply reading through the Bible could be likened to walking quickly through the world's greatest museum and periodically glancing at the various displays.
You'll learn something, but meditatively peering into God's Word can be likened to stopping all along the museum route, and even stooping down, and closely examining from different angles,
the artifacts, exhibitions, and displays. Now, our knowledge and appreciation are going to be enhanced much more.
Yes, our spiritual appetite and feeding habits reveal much about whether we have done away with a trait of a young child, namely, immature feeding habits.
Now, please turn to Ephesians chapter 4, verse 14. Let's discern from this scripture, negative trait number 2, that we don't want to imitate.
So we should no longer be children, tossed about as by waves, and carried here and there by every wind of teaching, by means of the trickery of men, by means of cunning and deceptive schemes.
So what's the negative trait? Young children are easily tricked or fooled.
This scripture likens being easily tricked about what's right or wrong to being tossed about by the waves of the ocean and blown around by the wind.
If you think of a piece of wood floating in a turbulent ocean or a piece of paper in a windstorm, there's no stability or direction.
Both can be easily maneuvered to go anywhere, take any position. Well, that's true of very young children who often can be easily deceived.
For example, if given a choice between a shiny coin of little value and paper money of great value, the shiny coin will likely be chosen.
But now here's the point. What do our spiritual choices reveal about us? Do our choices in regard to music and other entertainment, clothing and grooming indicate that we're being fooled even slightly by Satan and his world?
Yes, Satan is bent on tricking us. But Jehovah tells us, in 1 Corinthians 1420, the scripture we read earlier,
do not become young children in your understanding. But now, please turn to Matthew chapter 11, 16 and 17.
Here we'll find the third negative trait of a child that we do not want to imitate, with whom will I compare this generation?
It is like young children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to their playmates, saying,
we played the flute for you, but you did not dance. We wailed, but you did not beat yourselves in grief.
Jesus was saying that adult people were acting like children. Children love to play, so the negative trait of young children is that they prefer play over responsibility.
Think about it. The vast majority of the waking hours of a small child are spent playing. Play, play and more play. Most of their life is fun in games.
But later, when the child goes to school, what does he get the time to do so? He has to take it from his playtime.
But now, spiritually speaking, we can ask ourselves, how far have we progressed in buying out time from our playtime?
Ephesians 5.16 encourages us to make the best use of our time. Literally, according to the footnote, this scripture is telling us to buy out the appointed time.
That is, buy it from less important things. So the question for all of us is, have we bought out the majority of our playtime for more important spiritual responsibilities?
Now, we've discussed three negative traits of a young child that we want to avoid. If we had time, we could have discussed other negative traits to be avoided, such as children tend to have a short attention span. They're easily distracted.
Their curiosity often gets them into trouble, and they generally need a lot of time and attention. They're high maintenance.
But now, let's briefly discuss three positive traits of a young child that we do well to imitate.
Positive characteristic number one is in 1 Corinthians 1420, which we read at the outset.
That scripture tells us to, quote, be young children as to badness. So what's the characteristic that we want to imitate?
Young children are innocent in experience when it comes to badness. Or put another way, they haven't done many truly bad things.
Like children, we don't want to gain knowledge or experience in what is bad. For example, when it comes to pornography, we want no experience whatsoever.
In regard to this filthy thing of Satan's world. When it comes to television programs that are designated for a mature audience, remember to tell yourself, I'm not old enough. I'm a young child. For positive characteristic number two, let's consider Matthew chapter 18 verses two through four.
So calling a young child to him, he, Jesus, stood him in their midst and said, truly I say to you, unless you turn around and become as young children, you will buy no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Therefore, whoever will humble himself like this young child is the one who is the greatest in the kingdom of the heavens.
What's the desirable trait? Young children are humble and teachable. Young children ask many questions, because they want to learn.
But grown-ups are often hesitant to ask questions. Why? They don't want to look uninformed. But acting like we know something when we don't, is actually dishonest, and probably motivated by pride.
The point is, don't be afraid to reveal what you don't know. Remain humble and teachable like a child. Now, let's identify desirable trait number three by going to Matthew 21, 15, and 16.
When the chief priest and the scribe saw the marvelous things he did, and the boys who were shouting in the temple, save we pray the Son of David. They became indignant and said to him, do you hear what these are saying?
Jesus said to them, yes, did you never read this out of the mouth of children and infants? You have brought forth praise?
So what desirable characteristic can we identify? Young children are exuberant and enthusiastic.
Well, in like manner, we want to remain exuberant and expressive about Jehovah, Jesus, the kingdom, and other spiritual things. Some 145.7 encourages us to bubble over and shout joyfully because of these wonderful things, and we never want to lose that childlike enthusiasm.
Well, there we have three desirable traits of a young child that we want to do our utmost to imitate. If we had time, we could discuss several other positive characteristics such as children tend to be trusting, not prejudiced and not hypocritical.
But now, in review, may each of us prayerfully strive not to be childish when it comes to number one, immature feeding habits.
Number two, being easily tricked or fooled, and number three, preferring play over responsibility. On the other hand, may each of us prayerfully strive to be childlike when it comes to being number one, innocent and inexperienced concerning badness.
Number two, humble and teachable. And number three, exuberant and enthusiastic about spiritual things. The Bible contains many accounts of fateful men and women. We can learn from their examples.
In the following dramatization, notice what a family learns from Samuel.
Samuel was only my age when Jehovah spoke to him. He respected Eli, but he had to stand up for what's right. I never thought that I'd have to do something similar.
I loved my brother, and I always wanted to be like him. But those pictures of him partying with kids from school showed he was living a double life. I didn't want to get him in trouble, but I knew I had to say something. I told him he had to tell mom and dad.
He warned me not to tell him, but Samuel was courageous and did not hide anything. And Jehovah himself was with him. I couldn't hide this. Talking to my parents wasn't easy, but I knew it was the right thing to do.
Of course we were proud of Danny, but at the time we were a little distracted.
Maybe somehow it was all just a misunderstanding. We needed to know what was going on. We just wanted to help him.
We couldn't help but blame ourselves for what was happening. Then we thought back to Samuel's example.
Samuel, you need to listen to us. You're getting old, Samuel. And your sons are not like you. They cheat and they take pride.
The vent Jehovah's rules. Any way they please.
Even faithful Samuel had sons who deviated from Jehovah's standards.
We wanted to help our son. Just a Samuel didn't alter his course, and Jehovah stood by him. We knew if we did things his way, he'd stand by us.
Did you see the loyalty the younger son showed by his bringing the matter to the attention of his parents?
Did you also notice the loyalty the parents showed by going to the elders for assistance?
After the parents were able to talk to the elders, we hope that the older son was able to get the help he needed and that the discipline brought him to his senses.
Has your child left Jehovah? Do you blame yourself?
If so, remember that Jehovah stood by faithful Samuel, and he'll stand by you. He'll help you endure.
Another challenge we face today is remaining united in a deeply divided world.
During the 1950s and 1960s, racial tensions in the United States greatly intensified.
How were Jehovah's people affected during that period? And how did they maintain unity?
Let's look for the answers to those questions in the following report.
My mother always said, Jehovah did not intend for all of us to look alike.
In those early days, we would work every house in the county, like families, white families, any color.
That school, that was pressurized, being involved with the racial activity.
We would hear about the problems and the issues. It would be in the news and you would know what was going on in the South.
Some may wonder, how is it that our people, that is Jehovah's Witnesses, Black and White, could maintain such unity when the world around them was falling apart?
grew up in Central New York, Utica, New York. I remember in the Kingdom of ministry back in 1956, there were articles about serving with Anita's great.
They needed some of the Black friends to serve in the South.
I married my husband, Earl McGee, June 2, 1956.
When we were married, brother TJ Sullowing gave the talk at Hallendale Convention on serving with Anita's great.
He encouraged not only families, but he says new married couples, so we planned for it, and he wrote the branch.
We were assigned to Florida, and then in 1962 we started in the circuit work, and our first circuit was in Alabama, and it was not integrated.
We served together, Edna and I did, and the Pioneer work by assignment. The last assignment was by the society assigning us to North Carolina, and then there to the circuit work.
After the first circuit, which was in the Carolinas and Georgia, we were assigned to Gilead.
We got married in April 23rd, 1949. I've been full-time service, 70 years, for a while.
I was assigned to circuit 18 in Alabama.
My first circuit assignment was in Mississippi. It had the reputation as the worst state in the Union for race relations, and then after we got there, there were three civil rights workers who were killed
in Philadelphia, Mississippi. That was our circuit, so those were the things we had to deal with.
We were busy in our ministry, so it didn't bother us very much. The black work, the black, and the white work for white.
So we just obeyed the customary law of staying segregated.
Lots of movements were happening, and people were very hostile.
When there was a march or any tension, we were serving there in Alabama.
We wouldn't go to the town on Saturday afternoon to do street witnessing, because if there was a rally or something going on, we would just stay in the neighborhood.
A lot of what they call back them freedom riders, people getting on bus is going south, and people coming in to register borders.
In fact, some of the civil rights organizations were set up in Mississippi and weren't pretty strong, so as a result, they would think that because we were active in going door to door, we could just incorporate civil rights issues and things like that into our work.
One of our classmates, and the 27th class, was a black brother of fellow student, and we became very close friends there.
After we left Gilead, we were going to our assignments. We stopped at a convention in Alabama, and the convention was segregated.
One race on one side, one race on another, and it was very difficult, painful for us not to be able to closely associate with our dear friend.
So we got this talk show on the television. The circuit over C&I went also a Catholic priest and a Piscopal minister.
So the Piscopal minister, the young minister, asked, what were we doing about the marching?
So I told him that we weren't doing anything about the marching. Well, that sort of contrast, I'm black and he's white.
They weren't stopping their marching to help us priesthood into the kingdom, so we weren't going to stop preaching good news into the kingdom to help them march.
The brothers always were interested in each other. So if there was a black congregation and a white congregation, we had interest and fellow feeling for both.
The rule was we were not to meet together, and we couldn't meet, but we could talk to one another and we could visit one another.
So that think there was great support on both sides, black and white brothers back in those days.
If we had a problem getting a facility, for example, they'd have contacts and they could get certain things done. So basically we worked together.
The congregation started integrating after certain civil rights laws were passed.
We had a big meeting of all the elders and worked out the territory assignments and whatever else was necessary to have integrated congregations.
Some friends would feel and maybe rightly so at the time that there would be some violence if we integrated.
There probably was some kingdom always damage and things like that as a result.
But the fact is there was integration going in other places in the schools and things like that in the universities and colleges, and so it was obvious that if they could do it, then we even more so.
The process of integration was successful because it was under Jehovah's direction.
Both black and white, we had the same thing in common. We loved Jehovah. And despite us, Jehovah got it done for us and brought us together.
And we had been unified ever since.
Everyone could see that we were united. One brother was working from door to door, black and white, and the lady came to the door white.
And she said she was happy to see this unity take place. She looked forward to it for a long time.
We have formed with Jehovah's help by means of his Holy Spirit, a worldwide brotherhood. Granted, they have their imperfections, but it is a brotherhood and something to be truly marveled at.
The brothers began to feel what we knew was true. We were all one organization. They began to feel it being to experience it.
We loved Jehovah and we loved our brothers. So there you have it. How could you fail to have unity when Jehovah had drawn you together?
Satan is the prime one to divide people. Jesus died for the whole world, a man, so who would that exclude? No one.
Did you notice what helped our brothers maintain unity during that difficult time?
First, despite prevailing custom, our brothers, black and white, supported each other, helped each other, and worked together to advance kingdom interests.
Second, they remained focused on the ministry and did not get involved with social movements.
They wanted all to know that God's kingdom is the only solution to mankind's problems, including the plague of prejudice and racial inequality.
Third, they demonstrated love for Jehovah and love for the brothers.
As brother Thompson said, how could you fail to have unity when Jehovah had drawn you together? Impartiality, humility, kindness.
These are godly qualities and childlike qualities that our new music video illustrates.
Beautiful song. We need a childlike heart more than ever. In many parts of the world, it's customary to judge people on the basis of their race or age or by how much money they have.
In our next segment, we'll hear from brothers and sisters who have successfully resisted such influences.
I grew up in a country where people judged you according to the color of your skin. There was black, white, mixed race, but we all kept separate.
I needed to learn not to see color but to see people.
Even though it's such a multicultural area, there is still this prejudice that exists.
I've seen a witness times where ones from another country are often left isolated or are treated in a way that they're not welcome here.
If we're not careful, these attitudes could creep into the congregation. We could have isolated groups of cultures that maybe would stick together.
In the area where I grew up, young ones show great respect for older ones.
Older ones, however, do not give much importance to young people. This attitude or culture has a major impact on recommendations of young ones as elders in the congregation.
We might say, in my opinion, is too young to be appointed as an elder in the congregation.
In this area, people sort of open up to you when you appear rich. In some areas, they would even wonder what you're doing there if you don't have the right kind of looks.
In terms of what you can afford to wear, what kind of car you can afford to drive. What your profession is.
If we brought that with us into the Christian congregation, then what Solomon mentions, it could be the case that we actively seek the friendship of those that we regard to be rich.
And abandon those that are poor.
I like the example in Galatians with Peter. He grew up in an area where there was a lot of prejudice.
It wasn't something that he overcame straight away. If I'm not careful, I think it would be easy for me to slide back to see people as a different race.
And that would affect the way I view my brothers and sisters in the congregation.
The article mentions that when we use the Bible, it helps us to make changes.
We need to constantly look at ourselves so that we can continue to make progress.
In the article we mentioned about opening our hearts wide, whether it be working with them on the ministry, having them over socially, not just from the same group that we might be comfortable with, but actually with different ones from different backgrounds.
Timothy was still a young man, but the Apostle Paul had given him heavy responsibility in the congregation.
The article mentions that the scriptures do not give an exact age for recommendation of brothers as ministerial servants or elders.
Recommending a younger brother as an elder in the congregation has been a great blessing to us.
In the article, there was a little phrase that has become a guiding principle for me.
Jehovah does not judge our relationship with him by what we possess.
So when I meet new brothers and sisters, and for a moment, I'm tempted to judge or view them according to those sentiments as to whether they are rich or poor, that principle comes into my mind.
My focus therefore shifts to who they really are in terms of their devotion to Jehovah.
Their faith, that is what we build friendships are.
I have friends from different cultures, different races, and I don't see them as colour, but I see my brother and my sister.
I've got the most amazing friendships with ones from different backgrounds and cultures, something I would always cherish.
So our congregation is a wonderful place for everybody.
There's no emphasis on who is rich and who is poor.
Friendship I build on the basis of our love for Jehovah.
This month's program encouraged us to be childlike.
We learned from the encouraging example of servants of Jehovah in the past.
We saw that love for Jehovah and our brothers unite us, even during times of social unrest.
We were reminded that like a child, we want to be impartial, loving and kind.
And we heard expressions from brothers who have learned to treat others fairly, no matter their race, age, wealth, or anything else that could divide them.
Now it's time for our video postcard, which comes to us from the Czech Republic also called Czechia.
Czechia is a land of deep forest, farmland, vineyards, as well as medieval castles, towns and cities.
Prague, the capital, was established more than a thousand years ago.
It has a rich religious history.
God's name can be found on many churches and structures.
Czechia is home to more than 15,000 Jehovah's Witnesses.
There are 32 congregations in Prague.
This is the Prague Devetset Congregation, which has 84 publishers, including 13 regular pioneers.
Their territory is large and diverse.
They preach in the historic center of Prague in neighborhoods, parks, and on university campuses.
The congregation includes a Spanish-speaking group with 12 publishers of which eight are regular pioneers.
This group serves the entire city.
Speniac and Jarmala Boutsafal helped to secretly produce Bible literature during the communist regime when the work of Jehovah's Witnesses was banned.
Speniac was forced to work in a coal mine for remaining neutral and refusing to serve in the military.
After the regime changed, he served as a circuit overseer.
Our brothers and sisters in the Prague Devetset Congregation send their warm, loving greetings to all of you.
Earlier, we showed you a preview of this year's Always Rejoice Conventions.
But would you like a glimpse of this year's feature film, which brings to life the story of courageous Nehemiah?
Please enjoy.
Far from Israel lived a Jew, whom the King of Persia trusted with his life.
He believed his people were carrying on pure worship in Jerusalem until one day.
The walls of Jerusalem are broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire.
Most of the people ignore God's law.
Walls was only the beginning.
We have many powerful enemies.
I recommend you turn the accusation of its addition against Nehemiah.
Nehemiah is far away in Shushan.
Who is going to tell him?
This is my province.
Out here, I decide what to do.
I have a right to live where I choose, and so do you.
They would need help to face what was about to come next.
Every man must find his own joy, and I intend to find mine.
Why should you complain when everyone else approves?
We let mere threats frighten us in the stopping. They'll have achieved their goal.
Are you gonna wait until they start killing us?
Will power us to stop this?
Do you remember me favorably?
Oh my God.
We know you'll enjoy the convention.
And it's my pleasure to announce that we'll conclude the convention on Sunday with a new original song.
The song and lyrics are now available on jw.org.
The governing body requested everyone in the congregation
please practice the new song before going to the convention.
If someone in your congregation needs help to download the song,
please help them and practice with them.
Then together we'll sing out with all of our heart to Jehovah's praise.
That brings this month's program to an end.
Please know that the governing body loves all of you brothers and sisters very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.